feat(Tabs2): Tabs with improved interface (#2726)
looker-open-source/components: www/src/documentation/components/content/tabs.mdx

---
title: Tabs2
storybook: true
---

import { Code, MessageBar } from '@looker/components'

<MessageBar canDismiss={false} intent="inform" mb="medium">
  Tabs has been deprecated and replaced with
  <Code fontWeight="bold" fontSize="inherit">
    Tabs2
  </Code> please update any existing instances to use the new improved version. Deprecation
  of `Tabs` is planned for @looker/components 3.0
</MessageBar>

> `<Tabs2>` expects to receive one or more `Tab2` components. `Tabs2` manages the visibility of the single `content` based on its internal `Tab2` content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Tabs2` contains one or more `Tab2` components. `Tabs2`, when left uncontrolled, manages the visible tab as well as switching between tabs.
```

> `Tab2` expects to have `label` that will be the value displayed on the `Tab` itself. The value passed as children will be displayed as its content area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `Tab2` must have a `label`. The value passed as children will be displayed as its content area. `id` is optional (`label` will be used in its place if not supplied) but `id` is highly recommended when using `Tabs2` in a controlled state.
```

```jsx
<Tabs2>
  <Tab2 id="cats" label="Cats">
    Here's awesome story about cats
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 id="dogs" label="Dogs">
    Cats are way better than dogs. Go to other tab
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="Fish">Are kinda smelly</Tab2>
</Tabs2>
```

## Horizonal Scroll

`Tabs` supports scrolling when the tabs' combined width cannot be accomdated within the viewport width. - Try scrolling left-right.

```jsx
<Tabs2>
  <Tab2 label="1">
    Really long tab title that should help demonstrate side-scroll
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="2">Yet-another-tab-title to get things width enough</Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="3">
    Really, you must be obsessed with these long tab titles?
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="4">
    Okay, okay, we get it you want to see scrolling in action...

>   </Tab2>

Reviewer: `label` and `children` need to get inverted here so that the `Tabs2` has really long labels, not content :)

</Tabs2>
```

## Disabled Tab(s)

> To create a disabled Tab add the `disabled` prop to each individual `Tab2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display a tab that can't be activated add the `disabled` prop.
```

```jsx
<Tabs2>
  <Tab2 id="cats" label="Cats">
    Here's awesome story about cats
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 id="dogs" label="Dogs">
    Cats are way better than dogs. Go to other tab
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="Fish">Are kinda smelly</Tab2>
  <Tab2 disabled label="Human">
    not available
  </Tab2>
</Tabs2>
```

## Distribute Attribute

Using the distribute prop on `Tabs2` will equally distribute each `Tab` in the container.

```jsx
<Tabs2 distribute>
  <Tab2 label="Rebecca Purple">
    Rebecca Purple{' '}
    <div
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'RebeccaPurple',
        height: '350px',
      }}
    />
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="Coral">

>     {' '}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    <div
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'coral',
        height: '350px',
      }}
    />
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="Forest Green">

>     {' '}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    <div
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'ForestGreen',
        height: '350px',
      }}
    />
  </Tab2>
  <Tab2 label="Cornflower Blue">

>     {' '}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  return (
    <>

>       <Space my="small">
>         <Button onClick={() => setTab('cats')}>check out cats</Button>
>         <Button onClick={() => setTab('dogs')}>check out dogs</Button>
>       </Space>
>       <Divider />

Reviewer: For the purposes of user-facing demonstrations i prefer to see "vanilla" HTML as it reduces the amount of context the reader needs about our component suite. 

```suggestion
  <button onClick={() => setTab(0)}>Go to A</button>
  <button onClick={() => setTab(1)}>Go to B</button>
```

NOTE: We _do_ use styled components within Storybook when we're taking image snapshots because we've seen slight rendering variations between browsers with vanilla components.

Also, above let's change: 

```
const [currentTabIndex, setTab] = useState(0)
```

to 
```
const [tabId, setTabId] = useState(0)
```

In keeping with the new `tabId` nomenclature.

          <Tab>A</Tab>
          <Tab>B</Tab>
        </TabList>
        <TabPanels>
          <TabPanel>A</TabPanel>
          <TabPanel>B</TabPanel>
        </TabPanels>
      </Tabs>
      <Space my="small">
        <Button onClick={() => setTab('cats')}>check out cats</Button>
        <Button onClick={() => setTab('dogs')}>check out dogs</Button>
      </Space>
      <Divider />
      <Tabs2 tabId={currentTabIndex} onTabChange={setTab}>
        <Tab2 id="cats" label="Cats">
          Here's awesome story about cats
        </Tab2>
        <Tab2 id="dogs" label="Dogs">
          Cats are way better than dogs. Go to other tab
        </Tab2>
      </Tabs2>
    </>
  )
}
```

> ## Keyboard Navigation

Author: I was going to update the code so the new `Tabs2` component has better relationship between `active` and `focus` but as I looked into the [figma](https://www.figma.com/file/zd6MjUXIIstvG7gTJWaX2Y/Looker-Components?node-id=6740%3A0) file, looks like we will soon be doing updates to this component based on the GM2 roadmap. So I held off on that so the work can be done on a separated PR.
